Before moving on to our second type of weapon, the grenade launcher, let's create two
additional classes. They will inherit from BaseWeapon. One of the classes will be responsible for the logic of the
rifle, and the second class for the logic of the launcher. In fact, we have completely implemented the
logic of the rifle in the BaseWeapon class. Let's do a little refactoring to make BaseWeapon more
abstract and the rifle class more concrete. Right-click on the BaseWeapon C ++ class
and create an inheritor of this class. We name the first class STURifleWeapon. Click on the create class button.
We are waiting for everything to compile. And we create the second class inherited from BaseWeapon. We call it STULauncherWeapon.
Click create class and go to visual studio.
We start with the STURifleWeapon class. The firing logic will be different in rifle and launcher,
so we need to override the StartFire and StopFire functions in each class.
And we also need to override our main shot function called MakeShot.
We have it in the protected section. Let's make it virtual in the base class as well.
Copy the function declaration into our STURifleWeapon class.
We also add override everywhere. Next, go to the BaseWeapon .cpp file. Let's copy
all these three functions. Open the .cpp file of the rifle class.
Copy StartFire, StopFire, MakeShot. Replace the class name everywhere.
We delete the contents of the StartFire, StopFire, MakeShot functions in the BaseWeapon class.
That is, in fact, these functions become interface functions. If you and I were programming on what kind of our engine, then we could make
them purely virtual, but in the actor class we cannot do this to the swami, because it is impossible to create an
instance of an abstract class actor. Next, copy everything related to the timer.
In the launcher class, we will not have timer firing likes, so we transfer the timer handle to rifle.
Let's also make the GetTraceData function virtual. We only have a rifle deflection of cartridges. When firing rockets,
let's not randomize the direction vector. Let it be accurate with us.
In the GetTraceData function in the base class, let's return the logic before adding the cone.
ShootDirection just matches the direction of the ViewRotation.
In the BaseWeapon header file, we make the GetTraceData function virtual.
And add the function declaration to rifle weapon as well.
We also forgot to transfer BulletSpread and TimeBetweenShots - they will only apply to the rifle.
Let's compile and check that we haven't broken the rifle firing logic.
Compilation error ..
Let's see what happened. We forgot to change the class name in the timer. Change to rifle.
And also copy the headers for world and debug helper.
Let's compile again.
Everything compiled. Let's create a blueprint class for rifle. We inherit from the C ++ class.
We'll also put it in the weapon folder and name it BP_STURifleWeapon.
Let's set up a skeletal mesh for our rifle. We choose rifle. Compile.
Go to the character class and set the BP_STURifleWeapon weapon in the weapon component.
Checking. Nothing changed: shooting on a timer in a cone. Everything is as it was before.
And let's create a blueprint class for the grenade launcher right away. To do this, we inherit from the launcher class.
Create the BP_STULauncherWeapon class. Install skeletal mesh. Choose launcher.
And in the character blueprint in the weapon component, we also change the class to BP_STULauncherWeapon.
Checking. Launcher spawned successfully, but StartFire, StopFire do not work, because these
functions are empty. We haven't redefined them yet. We will get down to this in the next lesson.